# DALServer VO Data Service Framework Configuration Files
-----------------------------------------------------------------

The files in this directory provide a working example of how to
dyamically configure the DALServer framework for a local installation.

    ivoa-dal.war	   This is a pre-built copy of the DALServer Web-app.

    server.conf            Root configuration file
    <service>.conf         Configuration file for the named service
    <service>.tab          Table config file for the service (optional)

When the DALServer framework is told to reload the service configuration
(there are various ways this can be triggered), it reads the root
"server.conf" file.  All other service or table configuration files
referenced directly or indirectly from server.conf are read to build the
final runtime configuration.  Any other files in the configuration
directory (e.g. old or alternate versions of configurations) are ignored.
The default file names and the location of the configuration directory can
be modified from what is shown here if necessary.


Quick Start
------------

The following steps will suffice to get up and going quickly.   This
assumes that you already have a Java applications server or servlet
container (e.g., Apache Tomcat) installed on your system using the default
configuration.

    o   Copy the ivoa-dal.war file to your Web application directory.
	This is the "webapps" subdirectory in the Tomcat root, also known
	as $WEB_DEPLOY if you have the environment configured (or just use
	the application server management Web UI, if available, to install
	the new Web-app).  Give the server a few seconds to deploy the
	Web-app.

    o	Set up your local DALServer configuration directory.  The default
    	location of this is /opt/services/dalserver, but it can be moved
	if necessary (instructions for this will be provided elsewhere).

    o	In your Web browser, go to:

	    http://localhost:8080/ivoa-dal/reload

	This should load all the service defined in the server.conf file
	in your configuration directory.

    o   The provided test services should now be active and can be
	accessed via their standard VO REST Web service interface.  The
	page http://localhost:8080/ivoa-dal can also be used to try out
	the included pre-built demonstration/test services.  Use these
	to verify that things are working normally.

You can now try configuring a new data service.  For example, to add a
cone search service, copy one of the sample cone search service
configuration files, naming it "<service-name>.conf" where <service> is
the name of your new service, add the name of the new service to the end
of your server.conf file, then reload the configuration as outlined
above.  You can optionally add a "<service-name>.tab" file to customize
the table output by the service, if desired.  This assumes that you
already have a DBMS table loaded to be exposed via the VO cone search
protocol.


Examples
---------

The following should normally be left alone as they are used to verify
basic functioning of the DALServer installation, but may be commented
out if not needed:

    scs-messier.conf       Built-in demo/test Messier catalog cone search service
    ssap-null.conf         Built-in demo/test SSA null query service
    slap-null.conf         Built-in demo/test SLA null query service

Some sample data service configuration files (use as a template for a
new service):

    scs-vlafirst.conf	   A basic cone search service (VLA FIRST survey)
    siapv1-vlafirst.conf   SIA (V1.0) image service for the VLA FIRST survey
    siapv1-vlafirst.tab    An example table configuration for the above service
    ssa-vlafirst.conf	   A fake SSA service, using the VLA FIRST metadata
    tap-demo.conf	   A demonstation TAP service

Additional service examples from our development system are provided.
Configurations for some prototype SIA version 2 services are also
present.  We use these for VO standards development, but they should be
ignored for a production service deployments.  Note that multiple
service versions can be configured for a single data collection.

The VO Table Access Protocol (TAP) differs from the older service protocols
in that the service includes multiple synchronous and asychronous servlets.
Asynchronous execution for long running queries is available via the VO
Universal Worker Service (UWS) protocol.  Documentation of these protocols
is available from the VO standards and on the DALServer Web site.

Configuration Files
-------------------

The service configuration files are largely self-explanatory and contain
inline comments where needed.  More comprehensive documentation is
available on the DALServer Web site at:

    http://vaosa-vm1.aoc.nrao.edu/vo/dalserver

For details on the VO standards see:  http://www.ivoa.net/Documents/

DALServer was developed with support from the US Virtual Astronomical
Observatory (USVAO) and the US National Science Foundation.  NRAO has
kindly provided resources to host the DALServer Web site and reference
implementation.
